
 	          Diagnostic ROM for IBM-PC/XT and compatibles

		   Written by Ruud Baltissen - up to version V3

			from version 3.0 on: modem7 at the Vintage Computer Federation Forums


   To be compiled with NASM 2.11 or higher. Not tested with older versions.


 Notes:
 -	This ROM can be used to diagnose the IBM-PC, IBM-XT and compatible 
	computers.
 -	This version only supports the MDA and CGA video adapter. The reason: 
	the EGA and VGA cards need to be initialized by their own ROMs and I'm
	sure that they run subroutines and therefore need RAM for the stack. 
	The Landmark diagnostic ROM supports EGA by using its own routines but
	1) IMHO that needs more effort than it is worth the trouble and time
	and 2) and EGA monitors are rare nowadays.

 -	This test simply expects that a MDA or a CGA video card is present. In
	case both cards are present, in this version only the MDA card will be
	used.
 -	After the checksum test the program will beep to inform the user that
	the test is running fine so far. But if there is nothing on the screen
	at that point, there is either something wrong with the board or the
	video system.
 -	If the CPU is to be found bad, the test stops. Why continuing with a
	bad processor? Remark: a bad EPROM can cause this error as well.
 -	If the checksum of the EPROM is not correct, the test stops. If I can't
	trust the EPROM, can I trust the outcome of the following tests?
 -	If the program can't find 2 KB of good memory from 0000:0000h on, the
	test will stop as well. The rest of the program needs RAM for the
	interrupt vectors and subroutines. Without RAM that is not possible. 
	I know Landmark can continue by using this ROM-Stack method but this is
	a very labour intensive way of programming. I'm interested in repairing
	PCs with this tool and if the memory is bad, then repair that problem
	first before looking for possible other problems.
 -	General remark: broken glue logic and buffers can cause errors that are
	interpreted wrong by this diagnostic ROM or errors that won't be 
	detected at all. For example: a broken data buffer can cause that 
	nothing shows up at the screen althought the video card itself is fine.


 Versions
	This is a project I do just for fun. So I had no intention to keep
	track of any change I made. In case of a major change I will save a
	dated copy for myself but that was all.
 V2:
	But in october 2022 I decided for an important change: use the not-used
	video RAM as stack. The advantage: the whole is MUCH more easier to 
	program. The minor disadvantage: only MDA and CGA video cards are supported.


 Disclaimer
 -	All names with a copyright are acknowledged.
 -	Some information is derived from deduction after reading a lot of
	documents and can be unreliable due to the lack of real proof.
 -	If you use this source code and the resulting binary, then it is on
	your own account. I cannot be held responsible for blowing up your
	computer, mother-in-law or whatever; it will always be your own fault.
	USING THIS SOURCE CODE AND ITS BINARY IS COMPLETELY AT YOUR OWN RISK !!!
 -	I'm a Dutchman and English is not my native language. So you can expect
	to find several linguistic mistakes.
